# Python Package Project Template

This Cookiecutter template generates a Python project structured for package development. It includes a suite of tools and workflows for high-quality software development and easy package distribution.

## Features

- **Python Package Setup**: Scaffold for creating a Python package.
- **Virtual environment**: Convenient creation/activation with a single command. Use blazingly fast `uv`.
- **GitHub Actions for CI**: Automated workflows for Continuous Integration.
- **Publishing to PyPI**: Workflow for packaging and distributing your project on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/).
- **Static Analysis**: Pre-configured Flake8, Black, and MyPy checks. Use incredibly fast `ruff`.
- **Coverage Reporting**: Code coverage analysis with results published to a separate branch, integrated with Coveralls/Codecov.
- **Badges in README**: Status badges for CI and coverage.
- **Pre-commit Hooks**: Pre-configured hooks for code formatting and MyPy checks.
- **Dependency Management**: Using pip-tools with automated updates in `pyproject.toml`.
- **Version Management**: Makefile commands for package version management.
- **Documentation**: Multilanguage documentation with MkDocs Material, published on GitHub Pages.

## How to Use This Template

To create a new project from this template, you'll need to have Cookiecutter installed. 
If you don't have Cookiecutter installed, you can install it with 
[pipx](https://pipx.pypa.io/latest/installation/):

```bash
pipx install cookiecutter
```

Once Cookiecutter is installed, generate your project:

    cookiecutter gh:andgineer/cookiecutter-python-package

Follow the prompts to enter your project details.

## Post-Generation Setup
After generating your project, perform the following steps:

### PyPI Credentials
Set up your PyPI credentials as GitHub Secrets for automated package publishing:

- Go to your GitHub repository's Settings.
- Navigate to 'Secrets'.
  - Add the following secrets:
      PYPI_USERNAME: Your PyPI username.
      PYPI_PASSWORD: Your PyPI password.

###  GitHub Pages
Enable GitHub Pages for your project's documentation:

- Go to your GitHub repository's Settings.
- In the 'Pages' section, set the source to the gh-pages branch.

### Optional Configurations
- Codecov Token: Add CODECOV_TOKEN to your GitHub Secrets for Codecov integration.
- Coveralls Integration: Activate your project on Coveralls.

## How to use generated project

### Docs
Doc autogenerated and published on Github Pages from markdown files in `docs` folder.
Also from docstings autogenerated API reference.
See link in README.md.

### Dependencies
To create virtualenv run `. ./activate.sh` in the root of the project (note the first ".").
You need [uv](https://pypi.org/project/uv/) installed for this.

If you change dependencies in `requirements.in` or `requirements.dev.in` run `make reqs` to update 
`requirements.txt`, `requirements.dev.txt` and `pyproject.toml`. 
This also will update dependencies in the virtualenv.

### Black & mypy
To activate autoformatting and mypy checks run `pre-commit install` in the root of the project.

### Publishing package in pip
To publish the package on PyPi just set git tag with `make ver-feature` etc, 
see `make help` for details. After that the Github action will publish the package on PyPi 
and add link to the version into Github release.
